\section{Abstract}
Biological soil crusts (BSC) cover a vast global area and are key components
of ecosystem productivity in arid soils. In particular, BSC contribute
significantly to the nitrogen (N) budget in arid ecosystems via N-fixation.
Although BSC N-fixation is largely attributed to heterocystous cyanobacteria
\citep{Yeager, 14766579, Yeager_2012}, DNA stable isotope probing with
$^{15}$N$_{2}$ revealed primarily \textit{Clostridiaceae} and
\textit{Proteobacteria} incorporated $^{15}$N in mesocosm incubations with
light, poorly developed BSC samples. Non-heterocystous BSC diazotrophs are
low abundance members of BSC. The maximum relative abundance of putative
\textit{Clostridiaceae} and \textit{Proteobacteria} diazotrophs in any SSU
rRNA libraries presented by \citet{Garcia_Pichel_2013} or \citet{Steven_2013}
was 0.00225\% and 0.00127\%, respectively. Heterocystous cyanobacteria
relative abundance is correlated with mean annual temperature for
\textit{Nostoc commune} MCT-1 and MFG-1, and \textit{Scytonema hyalinum}
FGP-7A and DC-A (p-values 1.307x10$^{-02}$, 1.577x10$^{-06}$ and
3.332x10$^{-03}$, 3.173x10$^{-04}$, respectively). However, the direction of
the correlation is different for \textit{Nostoc} (decreasing with
temperature) and \textit{Scytonema} (increasing with temperature) types.
Non-cyanobacterial diazotrophs have not been sampled sufficiently yet in
existing BSC SSU rRNA sequence collections to diagnose their temperature
relationships or geographic scope. Identifying the full BSC diazotroph
diversity is an crucial step towards predicting how climate change and
disturbance will and do affect BSC N-fixation.
